---
published: true
layout: post
author: Chase Roycroft
title: SageMath
excerpt: "Just about everything you'll need to style in the theme: headings, paragraphs, blockquotes, tables, code blocks, and more."
categories: articles
tags: [sample-post], [mathematics]
comments: true
---

* Table of Contents
{:toc}

Has anyone used SageMath before? It's a really cool alternative to the commercial M* software (Magma, Maple, Mathematica, and Matlab). It's a free and open source (GPL licensed) software developed by a professor at the University of Washington. SageMath (previously Sage, SAGE) bundles packages and libraries like GAP, Maxima, SINGULAR, NumPy, SymPy, SciPy, R, etc. that cover a wide range of math fields. It also includes ______. SageMath worksheets (downloaded as .sws files) are interactive Jupyter notebooks written in Python or Sage, which is essentially just Python with added preparser steps that do things like allow caret (^) for exponentiation and promote Python ints to Sage's integers, which have more structure. SageMath can be accessed through several interfaces, including an interactive CLI mode, a Web-based worksheet, and collaborative documents on cloud.sagemath.com. All output in SageMath includes a LaTeX representation, so that the resulting graphs, expressions, etc. can be easily copied into a LaTeX document.

Link: http://www.sagemath.org/

Link: http://sagecell.sagemath.org/

Link: https://cloud.sagemath.com/


## Heading

~~~
# Background information

## Installation

### Impressions

#### Additional links
~~~

1. Item one
   1. sub item one
   2. sub item two
   3. sub item three
2. Item two

### Unordered Lists

* Item one
* Item two
* Item three

## Tables

| Header1 | Header2 | Header3 |
|:--------|:-------:|--------:|
| cell1   | cell2   | cell3   |
| cell4   | cell5   | cell6   |
| cell7   | cell8   | cell9   |


| Kingdom | Phylum  | Class | Order | Family |
|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|
|ANIMALIA|CHORDATA|MAMMALIA|CETARTIODACTYLA|CERVIDAE|


## Code Snippets

Syntax highlighting via Pygments

{% highlight css %}
#container {
  float: left;
  margin: 0 -240px 0 0;
  width: 100%;
}
{% endhighlight %}


#### highlight with line number.

{% highlight ruby linenos  %}
def foo
  puts 'foo'
end
{% endhighlight %}


#### highlight using triple backticks

```r
a=1:10
for(i in a)
{
  print(i)
}


```

## $$\LaTeX$$

you can use latex with <q>double $$ </q>

$$e^{i\pi}+1=0$$


## \<q\> tag

here is a \<q\> q tag \</q\>


here is a <q> q tag </q>
